# Calculation-of_Coefficient_of_restitution
Through the use of image processing techniques and particle tracking velocimetry the coefficient of restitution is calculated for a tennis ball using a video uploaded by the user.


The velocity before and after impact was calculated using the PTV algorithm with some modifications. Using the Hough Circle Transform function, the coordinates of the center of the circle were obtained. The y-coordinate of the center was used to find the displacement of the ball before and after impact. Here, the x-coordinate of the center is assumed to be constant and the code does not account for horizontal displacement. In order to determine the velocity of the ball before and after impact, the frame at which the ball hits the ground was identified. This was done in two steps. First, the difference between the y-coordinates of consecutive frames was calculated and stored in an array. Second, the frame at which the ball hits the ground is identified. This was identified by a change in sign of the numbers in the array measuring y-displacement. The index before the position at which the sign of the y-displacement changes is the displacement before impact. This index value is divided by the frames per second in order to obtain velocity before impact. Similarly the velocity after impact is calculated by dividing the value of the index after the sign change by the frame per second. The velocity after impact was divided by velocity before impact in order to obtain the COR. COR values were obtained for every bounce. These values were averaged in order to determine a single mean value. 
